The SRS Data Dictionary

Course: A semester-long series of lectures, assignments, exams, etc., that all relate to a particular subject area, and which are typically associated with a particular number of credit hours; a unit of study toward a degree. For example, Beginning Objects is a required course for the Master of Science degree in Information Systems Technology.

PlanOfStudy: A list of the courses that a student intends to take to fulfill the course requirements for a particular degree.

Professor: A member of the faculty who teaches sections or advises students.

Section: The offering of a particular course during a particular semester on a particular day of the week and at a particular time of day (for example, course Beginning Objects as taught in the Spring 2005 semester on Mondays from 1:00 to 3:00 p.m.).

Student: A person who is currently enrolled at the university and who is eligible to register for one or more sections.

Transcript: A record of all of the courses taken to date by a particular student at this university, including which semester each course was taken in, the grade received, and the credits granted for the course, as well as a reflection of an overall total number of credits earned and the student’s grade point average (GPA).

The SRS Specification
We have been asked to develop an automated Student Registration System (SRS) for the university. This system will enable students to register online for courses each semester, as well as track their progress toward completion of their degree.

When a student first enrolls at the university, he/she uses the SRS to set forth a plan of study as to which courses he/she plans on taking to satisfy a particular degree program, and chooses a faculty advisor. The SRS will verify whether or not the proposed plan of study satisfies the requirements of the degree that the student is seeking.

Once a plan of study has been established, then, during the registration period preceding each semester, a student is able to view the schedule of classes online, and choose whichever classes he/she wishes to attend, indicating the preferred section (day of the week and time of day) if the class is offered by more than one professor. The SRS will verify whether or not the student has satisfied the necessary prerequisites for each requested course by referring to the student’s online transcript of courses completed and grades received (the student may review his/her transcript online at any time).

Assuming that (a) the prerequisites for the requested course(s) are satisfied, (b) the course(s) meet(s) one of the student’s plan of study requirements, and (c) there is room available in each of the class(es), the student is enrolled in the class(es).

If (a) and (b) are satisfied, but (c) is not, the student is placed on a first-come, first-served wait list. If a class/section that he/she was previously waitlisted for becomes available (either because some other student has dropped the class or because the seating capacity for the class has been increased), the student is automatically enrolled in the waitlisted class, and an email message to that effect is sent to the student. It is the student’s responsibility to drop the class if it is no longer desired; otherwise, he/she will be billed for the course.

Students may drop a class up to the end of the first week of the semester in which the class is being taught.